[SPEAKER_00]: And tell me a little bit about your development.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, well I started, I went to school at UT
[SPEAKER_00]: Where are you from?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, I grew up in Austin.
[SPEAKER_00]: My dad was in the Air Force, so before that, we lived around .
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, did you?
[SPEAKER_01]: When I got out of school, I started doing it.
[SPEAKER_01]: I've been working for the House of Representatives while I was in college.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I graduated and I started working at the graphic design department.
It's been a couple of years or so.
In the graphic design department?
[SPEAKER_01]: For the house.
[SPEAKER_01]: For the house, actually.
Yeah.
Because...
[SPEAKER_01]: When I was in college and doing studio art, everyone thought about the fact that you have to make a living.
[SPEAKER_00]: After the fact.
[SPEAKER_00]: After you get out of college.
[SPEAKER_00]: I got more into the graphic arts after getting out of college.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then I went to Austin Community College so much.
[SPEAKER_00]: Graphic design.
[SPEAKER_00]: Now, were you working at the computer scheduling?
[SPEAKER_00]: No.
[SPEAKER_00]: What years were those when you were in school?
[SPEAKER_00]: There were no computers.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah, I know.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's not.
[SPEAKER_00]: I didn't think about it.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's amazing.
[SPEAKER_01]: In fact, when I started hearing the press, we didn't have a computer.
[SPEAKER_01]: In marketing, we got a computer.
[SPEAKER_01]: So then I met my husband and we got married and he decided that he was going to go back to school at A&M.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, he's a Jacob in your life.
[SPEAKER_01]: F-L-U-S-C-H-E.
[SPEAKER_01]: So, that's why we, that's what Brad is saying.
[SPEAKER_01]: What's your father?
[SPEAKER_00]: My father was from the Kingsville.
[SPEAKER_00]: They pronounce it Flusher.
And so, we moved to College Station in 1984.
[SPEAKER_01]: i went to work for the printing center for you know that's where susan and i met there and i started doing some freelance work for gaylon so that's i met her through my cousin's
[SPEAKER_01]: And then a year later, I guess the sales manager here at that time, but I don't remember who that was.
[SPEAKER_01]: No, no, he was business, no sales.
[SPEAKER_01]: Mike Murphy.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, he had Steve's job, but then after him,
[SPEAKER_01]: At that time, we didn't have an in-house sales rep after Mike Murphy quit.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I guess about, I don't really know when we started doing it.
[SPEAKER_00]: We had freelance sales rep for about 10 years or so.
[SPEAKER_00]: So they kind of redid Mike Murphy's job for me.
[SPEAKER_00]: So that I came in and started doing advertising.
[SPEAKER_01]: Susan Pierce, that's P-E-A-R-C-E.
[SPEAKER_01]: I started at A&M at the Printing Center, like Mary Ann said, I started in 1981.
[SPEAKER_01]: Prior to that, I went to school in Waco and I attended junior college there when I got out of high school and then didn't quite know what I wanted to do, so I went to
[SPEAKER_01]: Texas State Technical Institute.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was that at that time, and now it's TSTC, I think they call it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I studied graphic arts and graduated there.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I guess the printing and publishing kind of has evolved because my family's been in that business for over 100 years.
[SPEAKER_01]: My parents kind of have a, it's a weekly newspaper.
[SPEAKER_01]: Where?
[SPEAKER_01]: In Jewett.
[SPEAKER_01]: So it was like my dad had told me, you know, you've got to figure out something you're going to do.
[SPEAKER_01]: You're going to be a bum all your life.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that kind of interested me, you know.
[SPEAKER_01]: Is the newspaper still running?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, it is.
[SPEAKER_01]: The office is right there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, yes, it is.
[SPEAKER_01]: It is now.
[SPEAKER_01]: My mother really does it out of her house now.
[SPEAKER_01]: Most of it she's computerized and has her office there, but that's the main office for her.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they have it printed somewhere else in Waco.
[SPEAKER_01]: But that's kind of what got me into it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then I came up here after I... Well, you're the first one with a rational explanation for having gotten through this business.
[SPEAKER_01]: Is that right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Nobody knows.
[SPEAKER_01]: Should have been here.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's see.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I started at the printing center in 81.
[SPEAKER_01]: I guess I got out of college in 81.
[SPEAKER_01]: I went from 79 to 81.
[SPEAKER_01]: And came up here and started to work at the printing center as a lithographer.
[SPEAKER_01]: Mary Ann and I were doing basically the same thing back then.
[SPEAKER_01]: And worked there until June of 86.
[SPEAKER_01]: Luckily, Mary Ann put a bug in my ear and told me about this place.
[SPEAKER_01]: And she knew that I was looking to transfer and do something different.
[SPEAKER_01]: That kind of got boring after that.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I talked to Jim.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think he had a position that came open.
[SPEAKER_01]: His assistant left or something.
[SPEAKER_01]: B.J.
[SPEAKER_01]: Lodwig, she was his assistant, I think, before.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so I transferred over in 86.
[SPEAKER_01]: and worked with Jim then between 86 and 92 when he went 60% time as his assistant, production assistant.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, when you walked into the operation, first question, did any of you have any involved related press books at the printing center?
[SPEAKER_01]: I remember early on we ran some through there for a type setting.
[SPEAKER_01]: we probably uh stripped some we you know we did the impositioning of negatives and stuff for i know we saw tickets and stuff that would come through
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they would do, the printing center would do the text part, but they couldn't, they didn't have the binding capability.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so they would send it elsewhere to be bound into the hard case bound books.
[SPEAKER_01]: But they could do the text part.
[SPEAKER_01]: They would actually print the text pages.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they had a bunch of extra paper that we got over there.
[SPEAKER_01]: They just had it sitting over there.
[SPEAKER_01]: What's all about?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah and what I never really understood was because they didn't have a temperature controlled environmentally sound place to keep it I never quite knew how that worked because yeah the warehouse now is not it's not
[SPEAKER_01]: No, it's really not that bad.
[SPEAKER_00]: I don't think it is.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's not humidity.
[SPEAKER_01]: No, I was in there the other day.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't think.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so we haven't done the paper part in a long time, or at least since I've been here.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't think Jim did when he was here.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, it could be.
[SPEAKER_01]: The printing center probably didn't have that kind of paper.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think they kept it for us, but I know they didn't have paper.
[SPEAKER_01]: for theirs at that door open.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: To their warehouse.
[SPEAKER_01]: I do them every day.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we ended up patented it up and used it in our warehouse and we used it for flyers and marketing uses.
[SPEAKER_01]: Didn't want it to go the way.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's nice.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's good stuff.
[SPEAKER_01]: I remember that.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was so proud of that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: So when you come to a
[SPEAKER_01]: At this point, I'll ask you a very basic question.
[SPEAKER_01]: What was your general impression?
[SPEAKER_01]: Was it exciting?
[SPEAKER_01]: No, I was very excited.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was very excited.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was something new.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was a challenge.
[SPEAKER_01]: All the people here were just wonderful.
[SPEAKER_01]: They seemed nice and willing to help me into the transfer and learn about publishing, and I'm still learning about publishing.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I was excited.
[SPEAKER_01]: I mean, it was a beautiful place to work.
[SPEAKER_01]: I had my own office.
[SPEAKER_01]: It wasn't like a sweatshop.
[SPEAKER_01]: which we would compare, or I would compare.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, that's the way it, you know, it was just a big, big difference in what we were doing.
[SPEAKER_01]: This was kind of, not that the other wasn't professional, but this was just totally different.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, when you start working, are you primarily an assisting
[SPEAKER_01]: Jim Billingsley, or are you independent?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, when we started out, I really didn't know anything about publishing.
[SPEAKER_01]: I had the background of the graphic arts and the printing and the day-to-day technical part of it, so that kind of helped me out.
[SPEAKER_01]: But Jim just kind of taught me.
[SPEAKER_01]: along and I would help him with the things and as I learned them he would turn different projects and aspects of it all over to me mostly the production side I never got in that much to the design although yeah I worked with freelance designers and whatnot and I kind of had a feel for it I just never was really that interested in it
[SPEAKER_01]: But I helped him.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you're not doing any design early on until you have to move over into the design.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, he designed stuff in marketing.
[SPEAKER_00]: I designed stuff in marketing.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then I started doing it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Before Jim Black, he asked if I would design the covers for him.
[SPEAKER_01]: I've been doing all the catalogs
[SPEAKER_01]: Rick had an idea that we could save some money and do the cartooning Texas book.
[SPEAKER_00]: We haven't done that before.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've done all our catalogs.
[SPEAKER_01]: Did that work?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Tell me, say that again.
[SPEAKER_01]: What did you do?
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_01]: On Cartooning Texas, it was a book where we were trying to save some money.
[SPEAKER_01]: wanted us to try to do the typesetting on the computer and print out the copy and send that to the printer instead of using the typesetting.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we had done it on our ads and catalogs for a couple of years, but we haven't done it at all before.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that was, I did that before the computer.
[SPEAKER_00]: Were you able to run the cartoons?
[SPEAKER_01]: No, we didn't have a scanner or anything like that.
[SPEAKER_01]: So what I did is I just left spaces and then the printer shot the cartoons.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I was doing any typesetting around?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, a lot.
[SPEAKER_01]: Almost all of it.
[SPEAKER_01]: When she did that, and the reason... I would say 90 or 91, maybe.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm just guessing at that.
[SPEAKER_01]: But see, prior to that,
[SPEAKER_01]: all of our typesetting was done externally and we have compositors that were contracted with that did it and so you're paying a per page rate and other kind of rates to have them do that and so I guess kind of like Rick you said he wanted us to try to save we needed to save some money on that book Mary Ann could do it we had a computer so we tried it out and it worked really well
[SPEAKER_01]: It didn't have a lot of text.
[SPEAKER_01]: You know, we started out with something with just a very minimal amount of text.
[SPEAKER_01]: And back then, too, in all the programs that we use, we use page makers to do all the layouts and the text on the end.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it has improved tremendously.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's got a lot more typographic controls.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: So, it really wasn't possible to do it for a while up until, probably about until when we first started doing it.
[SPEAKER_01]: We really started doing a bunch of this in 94.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, in the pipe setting part, when we
[SPEAKER_01]: contact you out for printing.
[SPEAKER_01]: Did you contact you out first with types that are in, then the printer, or did you go for, for example, and they took care of the whole thing?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, if it wasn't designed in-house, and when Jim was here, he did, oh, 90% or more of the design.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the ones that he didn't do, we freelanced out to freelance designers.
[SPEAKER_01]: So first of all, it was designed.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then it was sent out externally for composition, which is the typesetting.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Lloyd mentioned that we really ought to wish you a supplier.
[SPEAKER_01]: When I was here, we used GNS typesetters in Austin, and we used MetroComp in Brundy Center, Iowa, and they were kind of a mom and pop organization.
[SPEAKER_01]: Very, very excellent quality type.
[SPEAKER_01]: I mean, they were wonderful.
[SPEAKER_01]: They were tied in closer to the constant shore.
[SPEAKER_01]: No, not at all.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I think Jim had used them maybe when he was at Tennessee or, you know, it was someone that he was familiar with.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And there were other vendors, graphic composition in Athens, Georgia, we used them.
[SPEAKER_01]: from time to time.
[SPEAKER_01]: I guess it's useful to mention some of the work I do.
[SPEAKER_01]: Especially the printers.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, the printers, and then, okay, so, you know, like I said, it went to the designer, then the typesetter, then the printer, and some of the printers, now, prior to my time here, I think a lot of stuff was printed at Hart Graphics and Austin.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And Hart Graphics has played a big role in printing a lot of the University Press books in the past, and they're not so much doing it anymore now because they've kind of changed their scope of work that they do, so they don't really fit into what we're needing anymore.
[SPEAKER_01]: But Thompson Shore in Michigan played a big role and still does.
[SPEAKER_01]: In fact, they hold one of our contracts at this time.
[SPEAKER_01]: Then, after it was printed,
[SPEAKER_01]: it would go to the bindery, and one of the main binders that we used.
[SPEAKER_01]: Are you handling these shifts from composition to printer to bindery, or is that part of your printing contract that comes for sure over there?
[SPEAKER_01]: From the printer to the binder, that is the printer's responsibility.
[SPEAKER_01]: Although they have to have approval,
[SPEAKER_01]: from us for the printer yeah we monitor it and coordinate the whole process from the beginning to end with the schedules and whatnot and keep up with everything but it is their primary responsibility if they don't have
[SPEAKER_01]: the bindery.
[SPEAKER_01]: They can do perfect bound with your paperback books and then for case bound books they send it out normally to, I think it was called, it's still there, custom book bindery in Austin and they used Universal in San Antonio as well.
[SPEAKER_01]: So for case bound books they had to subcontract that part of it out.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay, that's useful.
[SPEAKER_00]: Then, I guess let's go back to the transition.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's talk about transition from the line of time to the study of time.
[SPEAKER_01]: How would you characterize your early years there in terms of, let's say, atmosphere, management style, and whatever issue?
[SPEAKER_00]: I remember Lloyd, he was really quiet.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was such a hard worker.
[SPEAKER_01]: He stayed in his office.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was here at 7 o'clock in the morning.
[SPEAKER_01]: He liked to do everything himself.
[SPEAKER_01]: He didn't really have an assistant who had people answer the phone, but he didn't have anything on the window.
[SPEAKER_01]: I remember coming in in the morning and he'd be in his office with the light off, but he'd be working at his desk.
[SPEAKER_01]: He's a tremendous letter writer.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah, he is.
[SPEAKER_01]: He's a good writer.
[SPEAKER_01]: As I started doing all this, it didn't work.
[SPEAKER_01]: I didn't appreciate him.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's the one who did things.
[SPEAKER_00]: No, he really did.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was a hard worker.
[SPEAKER_01]: What about in relation to the staff?
[SPEAKER_01]: For example, I know that most people say that Wardlaw basically informed
[SPEAKER_01]: from the state of the state, whereas Lloyd tended to request information advices and so forth, and one of the guys would provide them to use advice.
[SPEAKER_01]: let people do their jobs themselves and he kind of let people make their own decisions and he was always happy to give advice but he didn't really get involved as much yeah but that's what i've heard too is that he made all the decisions that's right they were
[SPEAKER_01]: But I think also, it seems like the press, when it starts growing, it's not so easy to do that.
[SPEAKER_01]: I mean, you have to have people in marketing.
[SPEAKER_01]: I assume you're talking about it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I think you were growing.
[SPEAKER_01]: After we got here, basically we have been total growth.
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh yeah, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've been kind of a slow growth.
[SPEAKER_01]: And now we've grown, they're kind of, I told them a lot, now it seems like we're growing.
[SPEAKER_01]: We have been growing for the last year.
[SPEAKER_01]: And too, when Lloyd was here as director,
[SPEAKER_01]: Me, myself, I wasn't involved that much with, say, departmental meetings and stuff.
[SPEAKER_01]: You know, Jim was here, and he was the department manager then, so it kind of trickled down to me as needed.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so he kind of interacted more with Lloyd than I did now as far as, you know, just on a working relationship.
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh, it was great.
[SPEAKER_01]: You know, I really liked Lloyd.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was a nice man.
[SPEAKER_01]: So Lloyd moves in the ADA as well, and when the spreader comes in, because you notice any significant changes in direction, thrust, type of work you're pursuing or developing.
[SPEAKER_00]: I know it takes a long time to assist you to look through the system when you change the pattern, but was there a change in style and pattern of production, kinds of books?
[SPEAKER_01]: It seems like he kind of got us more into doing some big art training books.
[SPEAKER_00]: More art training books.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_00]: Did you sense that there was mounting financial pressures on the press?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: We heard about it.
[SPEAKER_01]: We heard if there was a chance we could move on subsidies.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that was pretty commonality.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that was scary.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah, he was worried about that.
[SPEAKER_00]: That was all of it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we worried about the people.
[SPEAKER_01]: They worried about that.
[SPEAKER_00]: Now, one question.
[SPEAKER_00]: When Sterner came in, he had a hard time early on.
[SPEAKER_00]: Did that tend to disengage him, did you feel, in the operations of the press?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, I guess it had to, to a certain extent.
[SPEAKER_01]: I just remember we were all pretty devastated.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was like we couldn't believe it, you know.
[SPEAKER_01]: And although he comes back on the job real fast, I always work in, you know.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was tough.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then on top of that, there was a massive movement, because this shouldn't affect me as it actually sent the higher racial art to the university.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that was all that sort of conservative.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: It seems like before Rick, he didn't really get involved that much.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I guess when he came, it started to change.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Do you feel it's better?
[SPEAKER_01]: left more and more of the decision-making process and their operations pressed to the staff, or was he more and more monitoring and enjoying it?
[SPEAKER_01]: He liked to be involved.
[SPEAKER_01]: He did, okay.
[SPEAKER_01]: I feel like he did.
[SPEAKER_01]: He kind of came in and out on projects that he was really interested in.
[SPEAKER_01]: There were certain things that he didn't want to get involved.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he didn't so much try to tell us how to do our jobs or micromanage.
[SPEAKER_01]: But he had direct interest, I guess, in design and production because he had done some of that stuff himself too.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I don't know as far as the other departments.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't remember about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: But he would come in and have definite ideas on things and give us suggestions.
[SPEAKER_01]: I know he did it on the catalog.
[SPEAKER_01]: He did that in the catalog.
[SPEAKER_00]: Was there any noticeable thrust in expanding the publication line?
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't think so.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't recall that.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: The heavily illustrated large coffee table, you know, color books and all, they did take a lot of time.
[SPEAKER_00]: Photographic books and novels.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_00]: Do you remember anything about the inception of that first film?
[SPEAKER_01]: I do.
[SPEAKER_01]: What were some of the high... Let's talk about Billington.
[SPEAKER_01]: How do you read it?
[SPEAKER_01]: Good.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: But anyway, what were your relations to
[SPEAKER_01]: Kim, you're still out of this cycle for a while.
[SPEAKER_01]: You and Jim, you really collaborated.
[SPEAKER_01]: Was there someone else in the office?
[SPEAKER_01]: It was just Jim and myself.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was just us, along with some freelance designers that we .
[SPEAKER_01]: Of the design?
[SPEAKER_01]: Jim did, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we did all the production.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I would say 90%.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you're more heavily involved in production management.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's kind of which way he steered me and taught me in that sense.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now as production manager, that involved primarily once the book is designed and ready to go, then do you submit these on a competitive book?
[SPEAKER_01]: bidding process for the most part or sometimes all the time no we don't anymore there was a time when I first started that I guess the purchasing department I don't know if they they allowed us at that time to go out and we control the bidding process and would send it out to at least three vendors for bids and come and review them and then award the bid accordingly but since then
[SPEAKER_01]: we have started or we did contracts, block contracts with compositors and with printers and binders which would be run through the university purchasing department and then they still allowed us to make the final decision as to where the bid would be awarded.
[SPEAKER_01]: It didn't have to be
[SPEAKER_01]: the lowest bidder, so to speak.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, absolutely that facilitated thing because when you have one vendor or two or three or however many that you can establish a relationship with that, you know, they get accustomed to how you want things done.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you can choose between those vendors.
[SPEAKER_01]: Basically, what project should best be sent to the country for?
[SPEAKER_01]: Right, what they're better suited for.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, exactly.
[SPEAKER_01]: We kind of felt it out ahead of time.
[SPEAKER_01]: Are we doing that now?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right now, we are contracted with two vendors.
[SPEAKER_01]: One is Thompson Shore in Michigan.
[SPEAKER_01]: The other is Data Reproductions, and they're also in Michigan.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they're two really competitive university press
[SPEAKER_01]: printers, lots of other university presses contract with them, and there are others too, but those two are the current ones that we use right now.
[SPEAKER_01]: And those are both on the block contract?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now there are books from time to time that those vendors are not
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: The oversized books like the George Bush book that we're doing right now, you know, that was bid out separately and there's another vendor that's better suited for that type of format and color and whatnot.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we work cooperatively with the purchasing department.
[SPEAKER_01]: They're very helpful as far as that's concerned because they're sticklers about going by the book and we for sure want to do that.
[SPEAKER_01]: When did that work?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, Jim, I think, let's see, if I started here in 86, I know we bid them out for a while.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'd say probably 87 or 88 is when the university press here first got into the position of block contracts with the printing.
[SPEAKER_01]: For some reason, I have 88 memory, but I don't know if that's going to happen.
[SPEAKER_01]: Because we would go for like three years.
[SPEAKER_01]: We tried for three-year block contracts with one-year renewal, extendable, if necessary.